.. include:: images.rst

.. _enhanced-content-system-preferences-label:

Enhanced content
---------------------------------------

*Get there:* More > Administration > Global system preferences >
Enhanced content

    **Important**

    Always read the terms of service associated with external data
    sources to be sure that you are using the products within the
    allowed limits.

    **Note**

    You cannot have more than one service for cover images (including
    local cover images) set up. If you set up more than one you will get
    multiple cover images. Instead choose only one source for cover
    images.

.. _all-label:

All
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. _frbrizeeditions-label:

FRBRizeEditions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Default: Don't show

Asks: \_\_\_ other editions of an item on the staff client

Values:

-  Don't show

-  Show

   |image46|

Description:

-  Using the rules set forth in the Functional Requirements for
   Bibliographic records, this option, when enabled, pulls all editions
   of the same title available in your collection regardless of material
   type. Items will appear under an 'Editions' tab on the detail page
   for the title in question.. According to *Libraries Unlimited's
   Online Dictionary for Library and Information Science*
   (http://lu.com/odlis/), FRBRizing the catalog involves collating MARC
   records of similar materials. FRBRization brings together entities
   (sets of Works, Expressions, or Manifestations), rather than just
   sets of Items. It can aid patrons in selecting related items,
   expressions, and manifestations that will serve their needs. When it
   is set to "Show", the OPAC will query one or more ISBN web services
   for associated ISBNs and display an Editions tab on the details
   pages. Once this preference is enabled, the library must select one
   of the ISBN options (such as :ref:`ThingISBN <ThingISBN-label>`). This option is only for the Staff
   Client - the :ref:`OPACFRBRizeEditions <OPACFRBRizeEditions-label>` option must be enabled
   to have the Editions tab appear on the OPAC.

    **Important**

    Requires that you turn on one or more of the ISBN services
    (such as :ref:`ThingISBN <ThingISBN-label>`).

.. _opacfrbrizeeditions-label:

OPACFRBRizeEditions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Default: Don't show

Asks: \_\_\_ other editions of an item on the OPAC.

Description:

-  Using the rules set forth in the Functional Requirements for
   Bibliographic records, this option, when enabled, pulls all editions
   of the same title available in your collection regardless of material
   type. Items will appear under an 'Editions' tab on the detail page
   for the title in question.. According to *Libraries Unlimited's
   Online Dictionary for Library and Information Science*
   (http://lu.com/odlis/), FRBRizing the catalog involves collating MARC
   records of similar materials. FRBRization brings together entities
   (sets of Works, Expressions, or Manifestations), rather than just
   sets of Items. It can aid patrons in selecting related items,
   expressions, and manifestations that will serve their needs. When it
   is set to "Show", the OPAC will query one or more ISBN web services
   for associated ISBNs and display an Editions tab on the details
   pages. Once this preference is enabled, the library must select one
   of the ISBN options (such as :ref:`ThingISBN <ThingISBN-label>`). This option is only for the OPAC - the
   :ref:`FRBRizeEditions <FRBRizeEditions-label>` option must be turned "On" to
   have the Editions tab appear on the Staff Client.

Values:

-  Don't show

-  Show

   |image47|

This preference pulls all editions of the same title available in your
collection regardless of material type. Items will appear under an
'Editions' tab on the detail page for the title in question.

    **Important**

    Requires that you turn on one or more of the ISBN services
    (such as :ref:`ThingISBN <ThingISBN-label>`).

.. _amazon-system-preferences-label:

Amazon
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. _amazonassoctag-label:

AmazonAssocTag
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Asks: Put the associate tag \_\_\_ on links to Amazon.

    **Note**

    This can net your library referral fees if a patron decides to buy
    an item after clicking through to Amazon from your site.

Description:

-  An Amazon Associates Tag allows a library to earn a percentage of all
   purchases made on Amazon when a patron accesses Amazon's site via
   links on the library's website. More information about the Amazon
   Associates program is available at Amazon's Affiliate Program's
   website, https://affiliate-program.amazon.com/. Before a tag can be
   obtained, however, the library must first apply for an Amazon Web
   Services (AWS) account. Applications are free of charge and can be
   made at http://aws.amazon.com. Once an AWS account has been
   established, the library can then obtain the Amazon Associates Tag.

Sign up at: https://affiliate-program.amazon.com/

.. _amazoncoverimages-label:

AmazonCoverImages
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Default: Don't show

Asks: \_\_\_ cover images from Amazon on search results and item detail
pages on the staff interface.

Values:

-  Don't show

-  Show

Description:

-  This preference makes it possible to either allow or prevent Amazon
   cover images from being displayed in the Staff Client. Cover images
   are retrieved by Amazon, which pulls the content based on the first
   ISBN number in the item's MARC record. Amazon offers this service
   free of charge. If the value for this preference is set to "Show",
   the cover images will appear in the Staff Client, and if it is set to
   "Don't show", the images will not appear. Finally, if you're using
   Amazon cover images, all other cover image services must be disabled.
   If they are not disabled, they will prevent AmazonCoverImages from
   functioning properly.

.. _amazonlocale-label:

AmazonLocale
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Default: American

Asks: Use Amazon data from its \_\_\_ website.

Value:

-  American

-  British

-  Canadian

-  French

-  German

-  Indian

-  Japanese

.. _opacamazoncoverimages-label:

OPACAmazonCoverImages
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Default: Don't show

Asks: \_\_\_ cover images from Amazon on search results and item detail
pages on the OPAC.

Values:

-  Don't show

-  Show

Description:

-  This preference makes it possible to either allow or prevent Amazon
   cover images from being displayed in the OPAC. Cover images are
   retrieved by Amazon, which pulls the content based on the first ISBN
   number in the item's MARC record. Amazon offers this service free of
   charge. If the value for this preference is set to "Show", the cover
   images will appear in the OPAC, and if it is set to "Don't show", the
   images will not appear. Finally, if you're using Amazon cover images,
   all other cover image services must be disabled. If they are not
   disabled, they will prevent AmazonCoverImages from functioning
   properly.

.. _babeltheque-system-preferences-label:

Babelthèque
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. _babeltheque-label:

Babelthèque
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Default: Don't

Asks: \_\_\_ include information (such as reviews and citations) from
Babelthèque in item detail pages on the OPAC.

Description:

-  This preference makes it possible to display a Babelthèque tab in the
   OPAC, allowing patrons to access tags, reviews, and additional title
   information provided by Babelthèque. The information which
   Babelthèque supplies is drawn from the French language-based
   `Babelio.com <http://www.babelio.com/>`__, a French service similar
   to LibraryThing for Libraries. More information about Babelthèque is
   available through its website,
   `http://www.babeltheque.com <http://www.babeltheque.com/>`__.
   Libraries that wish to allow access to this information must first
   register for the service at http://www.babeltheque.com. Please note
   that this information is only provided in French.

Values:

-  Do

   |image48|

-  Don't

.. _babeltheque-url-js-label:

Babeltheque\_url\_js
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Asks: \_\_\_ Defined the url for the Babelthèque javascript file (eg.
http://www.babeltheque.com/bw\_XX.js)

.. _babeltheque-url-update-label:

Babeltheque\_url\_update
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Asks: \_\_\_ Defined the url for the Babelthèque update periodically
(eq. http://www.babeltheque.com/.../file.csv.bz2).

.. _baker-and-taylor-label:

Baker & Taylor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    **Important**

    This is a pay service, you must contact Baker & Taylor to subscribe
    to this service before setting these options.

.. _bakertaylorbookstoreurl-label:

BakerTaylorBookstoreURL
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Asks: Baker and Taylor "My Library Bookstore" links should be accessed
at https:// \_\_\_ isbn

Description:

-  Some libraries generate additional funding for the library by selling
   books and other materials that are purchased from or have been
   previously leased from Baker & Taylor. These materials can be
   accessed via a link on the library's website. This service is often
   referred to as "My Library Bookstore." In order to participate in
   this program, the library must first register and pay for the service
   with Baker & Taylor. Additional information about this and other
   services provided by Baker & Taylor is available at the Baker &
   Taylor website, https://www.baker-taylor.com/. The BakerTaylorBookstoreURL
   preference establishes the URL in order to link to the library's
   Baker & Taylor-backed online bookstore, if such a bookstore has been
   established. The default for this field is left blank; if no value is
   entered, the links to My Library Bookstore will remain inactive. If
   enabling this preference, enter the library's Hostname and Parent
   Number in the appropriate location within the URL. The "key" value
   (key=) should be appended to the URL, and https:// should be
   prepended.

This should be filled in with something like
koha.mylibrarybookstore.com/MLB/actions/searchHandler.do?nextPage=bookDetails&parentNum=10923&key=

    **Note**

    Leave it blank to disable these links.

    **Important**

    Be sure to get this information from Baker & Taylor when
    subscribing.

.. _bakertaylorenabled-label:

BakerTaylorEnabled
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Default: Don't add

Asks: \_\_\_ Baker and Taylor links and cover images to the OPAC and
staff client. This requires that you have entered in a username and
password (which can be seen in image links).

Values:

-  Add

-  Don't add

Description:

-  This preference makes it possible to display Baker & Taylor content
   (book reviews, descriptions, cover images, etc.) in both the Staff
   Client and the OPAC. Libraries that wish to display Baker & Taylor
   content must first register and pay for this service with Baker &
   Taylor (https://www.baker-taylor.com/). If Baker & Taylor content is enabled be
   sure to turn off other cover and review services to prevent
   interference.

    **Important**

    To use this you will need to also set the :ref:`BakerTaylorUsername and
    BakerTaylorPassword <bakertaylorusername-and-bakertaylorpassword-label>` system preferences

.. _bakertaylorusername-and-bakertaylorpassword-label:

BakerTaylorUsername and BakerTaylorPassword
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Asks: Access Baker and Taylor using username \_\_\_ and password \_\_\_

Descriptions:

-  This setting in only applicable if the library has a paid
   subscription to the external Content CafÃ© service from Baker &
   Taylor. Use the box provided to enter in the library's Content CafÃ©
   username and password. Also, ensure that the
   :ref:`BakerTaylorBookstoreURL <BakerTaylorBookstoreURL-label>` and
   :ref:`BakerTaylorEnabled <BakerTaylorEnabled-label>` settings are properly
   set. The Content CafÃ© service is a feed of enhanced content such as
   cover art, professional reviews, and summaries that is displayed
   along with Staff Client/OPAC search results. For more information on
   this service please see the Baker & Taylor website:
   https://www.baker-taylor.com/

    **Important**

    Be sure to get this information from Baker & Taylor when
    subscribing.

.. _coce-cover-images-cache-label:

Coce cover images cache
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Coce is a remote image URL cache. With this option, cover images are not
fetched directly from Amazon, Google, and so on. Their URLs are
requested via a web service to Coce which manages a cache of URLs.

.. _coce-label:

Coce
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Default: Don't enable

Asks: \_\_\_ a Coce image cache service.

Values:

-  Don't enable

-  Enable

Description:

-  Coce has many benefits when it comes to choosing and displaying cover
   images in Koha:

   -  If a book cover is not available from a provider, but is available
      from another one, Koha will be able to display a book cover, which
      isn't the case now

   -  Since URLs are cached, it isn't necessary for each book cover to
      request, again and again, the provider, and several of them if
      necessary.

   -  Amazon book covers are retrieved with Amazon Product Advertising
      API, which means that more covers are retrieved (ISBN13).

       **Important**

       Coce does not come bundled with Koha. Your Koha install will not
       already have a Coce server set up. Before enabling this
       functionality you will want to be sure to have a Coce server set
       up. Instructions on installing and setting up Coce can be found
       on the official github page at https://github.com/fredericd/coce.

.. _cocehost-label:

CoceHost
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Asks: Coce server URL \_\_\_

Description:

-  This will be the full URL (starting with http://) to your Coce
   server.

.. _coceproviders-label:

CoceProviders
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Asks: Use the following providers to fetch the covers \_\_\_

Values:

-  [Select all]

-  Amazon Web Services

-  Google Books

-  Open Library

Description:

-  The providers chosen here will be used to gather cover images for
   display in your Koha catalog.

.. _google-label:

Google
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. _googlejackets-label:

GoogleJackets
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Default: Don't add

Asks: \_\_\_ cover images from Google Books to search results and item
detail pages on the OPAC.

Values:

-  Add

-  Don't add

Description:

-  This setting controls the display of applicable cover art from the
   free Google Books database, via the Google Books API. Please note
   that to use this feature, all other cover services should be turned
   off.

.. _html5-media-label:

HTML5 Media
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. _html5mediaenabled-label:

HTML5MediaEnabled
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Default: not at all

Asks: Show a tab with a HTML5 media player for files catalogued in field
856 \_\_\_

Values:

-  in OPAC and staff client

-  in the OPAC

   |image49|

-  in the staff client

   |image50|

-  not at all

Description:

-  If you have media elements in the 856 of your MARC record this
   preference can run/show those media files in a separate tab using
   HTML5.

.. _html5mediaextensions-label:

HTML5MediaExtensions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Default: webm\|ogg\|ogv\|oga\|vtt

Asks: Media file extensions \_\_\_

Description:

-  Enter in file extensions separated with bar (\|)

.. _html5mediayoutube-label:

HTML5MediaYouTube
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Default: Don't embed

    **Important**

    To turn this on first enable
    :ref:`HTML5MediaEnabled <HTML5MediaEnabled-label>`

Asks: \_\_\_ YouTube links as videos.

Values:

-  Don't embed

-  Embed

Description:

-  This preference will allow MARC21 856$u that points to YouTube to
   appear as a playable video on the pages defined in
   :ref:`HTML5MediaEnabled <HTML5MediaEnabled-label>`.

.. _librarything-label:

LibraryThing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

LibraryThing for Libraries is a pay service. You must first contact
LibraryThing directly for pricing and subscription information. Learn
more at http://www.librarything.com/forlibraries. Also, for further
configuration instructions please see the LibraryThing Wiki:
http://www.librarything.com/wiki/index.php/Koha

.. _librarythingforlibrariesenabled-label:

LibraryThingForLibrariesEnabled
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Default: Don't show

Asks: \_\_\_ reviews, similar items, and tags from Library Thing for
Libraries on item detail pages on the OPAC.

Values:

-  Don't show

-  Show

Description:

-  This setting is only applicable if the library has a paid
   subscription to the external LibraryThing for Libraries service. This
   service can provide patrons with the display of expanded information
   on catalog items such as book recommendations. It also can offer
   advanced features like tagged browsing, patron written reviews, and a
   virtual library display accessed from the details tab.

    **Important**

    If this is set to 'show' you will need to enter a value in the
    :ref:`LibraryThingForLibrariesID <LibraryThingForLibrariesID-label>` system preference.

.. _librarythingforlibrariesid-label:

LibraryThingForLibrariesID
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Asks: Access Library Thing for Libraries using the customer ID \_\_\_

Description:

-  This setting is only applicable if the library has a paid
   subscription to the external LibraryThing for Libraries service. Use
   the box provided to enter in the library's LibraryThing for Libraries
   ID as provided to the library by LibraryThing. The ID number is a
   series of numbers in the form ###-#########, and can be found on the
   library's account page at LibraryThing for Libraries. This service
   can provide patrons with the display of expanded information on
   catalog items such as book recommendations and cover art. It also can
   offer advanced features like tagged browsing, patron written reviews,
   and a virtual library display accessed from the details tab.

.. _librarythingforlibrariestabbedview-label:

LibraryThingForLibrariesTabbedView
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Default: in line with bibliographic information

Asks: Show Library Thing for Libraries content \_\_\_

Values:

-  in line with bibliographic information

-  in tabs

Description:

-  This setting is only applicable if the library has a paid
   subscription to the external LibraryThing for Libraries service. This
   service can provide patrons with the display of expanded information
   on catalog items such as book recommendations and cover art. It also
   can offer advanced features like tagged browsing, patron written
   reviews, and a virtual library display accessed from the details tab.

.. _thingisbn-label:

ThingISBN
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Default: Don't use

Asks: \_\_\_ the ThingISBN service to show other editions of a title

Values:

-  Don't use

-  Use

Description:

-  Set to 'Use' to display an "Editions" tab on the item's detail page.
   Editions are listed, complete with cover art (if you have one of the
   cover services enabled) and bibliographic information. The feed comes
   from LibraryThing's ThingISBN web service. This is a free service to
   non-commercial sites with fewer than 1,000 requests per day.

    **Important**

    Requires :ref:`FRBRizeEditions <FRBRizeEditions-label>` and/or
    :ref:`OPACFRBRizeEditions <OPACFRBRizeEditions-label>` set to 'show'

    **Important**

    This is separate from Library Thing for Libraries and does not have
    a cost associated with it.

.. _local-cover-images-label:

Local or remote cover images
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. _allowmultiplecovers-label:

AllowMultipleCovers
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Asks: \_\_\_ multiple images to be attached to each bibliographic record and 
item.

Default: Don't allow

Values:

-  Allow

-  Don't allow

Description:

-  If this preference is set to 'Allow', you can upload multiple
   images that will appear in the images tab of the bibliographic record in the
   OPAC and the staff interface.

   |multiplecoversopac|

-  This system preference requires that either one or both of 
   :ref:`LocalCoverImages <LocalCoverImages-label>` and
   :ref:`OPACLocalCoverImages <OPACLocalCoverImages-label>` be set to 'Show'.

.. _customcoverimages-label:

CustomCoverImages
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Asks: \_\_\_ custom remote URL images in the staff interface.

Default: Don't show

Values:

-  Don't show

-  Show

Description:

-  If you use :ref:`CustomCoverImagesURL <CustomCoverImagesURL-label>`, this preference indicates if you
   want these cover images to appear in the staff interface.

-  Use :ref:`OPACCustomCoverImages <OPACCustomCoverImages-label>` if you want those images to appear in the
   OPAC.

.. _opaccustomcoverimages-label:

OPACCustomCoverImages
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Asks: \_\_\_ custom remote URL images at the OPAC.

Default: Don't show

Values:

-  Don't show

-  Show

Description:

-  If you use :ref:`CustomCoverImagesURL <CustomCoverImagesURL-label>`, this preference indicates if you
   want these cover images to appear in the OPAC.

-  Use :ref:`CustomCoverImages <CustomCoverImages-label>` if you want those images to appear in the
   staff interface.

.. _customcoverimagesurl-label:

CustomCoverImagesURL
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Asks: Using the following URL: \_\_\_

Description:

-  You can use codes to substitute bibliographic information in the URL:
   {isbn}, {issn}, {normalized_isbn}

   For example:
   http://www.mylibrarysite.com/covers/{isbn}.png

-  You can also use MARC fields and subfields in the URL like so:
   {024$a}

   For example:
   http://www.mylibrarysite.com/covers/{024$a}.png

-  Make sure to enable :ref:`CustomCoverImages <CustomCoverImages-label>` if you want those images to
   appear in the staff interface and :ref:`OPACCustomCoverImages <OPACCustomCoverImages-label>` if you want
   those images to appear in the OPAC.

.. _localcoverimages-label:

LocalCoverImages
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Asks: \_\_\_ local cover images on staff interface search and details pages.

Default: Don't show

Values:

-  Don't show

-  Show

Description:

-  Setting this preference to 'Show' allows you to upload your own
   cover images to bibliographic records and display them on the detail page in
   the staff interface.

See also:

-  :ref:`OPACLocalCoverImages <OPACLocalCoverImages-label>`

-  :ref:`CustomCoverImages <CustomCoverImages-label>`

-  :ref:`AllowMultipleCovers <AllowMultipleCovers-label>`

.. _opaclocalcoverimages-label:

OPACLocalCoverImages
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Asks: \_\_\_ local cover images on OPAC search and details pages.

Default: Don't show

Values:

-  Don't show

-  Show

Description:

-  Setting this preference to 'Show' allows you to upload your own
   cover images to bibliographic records and display them on the detail page and
   search results in the OPAC.

See also:

-  :ref:`LocalCoverImages <LocalCoverImages-label>`

-  :ref:`OPACCustomCoverImages <OPACCustomCoverImages-label>`

-  :ref:`AllowMultipleCovers <AllowMultipleCovers-label>`

.. _manual-sysprefs-label:

Manual
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. _kohamanualbaseurl-label:

KohaManualBaseURL
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Default: https://koha-community.org/manual/

Asks: Location of the Koha manual \_\_\_

Description:

-  You can specify the location of the Koha manual to use. This is the
   URL that will be used for the help pages when you click 'Help' at
   the top right corner of the page.

-  By default, the Koha manual is used, but you can use this system
   preference to substitute for your own help pages.

-  If the URL starts with '/', the value of :ref:`staffClientBaseURL <staffClientBaseURL-label>`
   will be used as a prefix.

-  Note that it will be suffixed by the version / the language / the
   format (/17.11/en/html)

.. _kohamanuallanguage-label:

KohaManualLanguage
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Default: English

Asks: Language of the online manual ­\_\_\_

Description:

-  By default, the language of the Koha interface will be used
   as the manual language. However, if the manual is not translated
   in that language, this system preference specifies the fallback
   language.

.. _novelist-select-label:

Novelist Select
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Novelist Select is not a free service. Contact your Ebsco representative
to get your log in information to embed this content in the OPAC.

    **Important**

    Novelist Select does not include cover images for the search results
    and bibliographic detail pages. You can choose any other cover image
    service for this content or you can contract with Ebsco to get
    access to the :ref:`Baker & Taylor Content Cafe <baker-and-taylor-label>` for
    an added fee.

.. _novelistselectenabled-label:

NovelistSelectEnabled
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Default: Don't add

Asks: \_\_\_ Novelist Select content to the OPAC.

Values:

-  Add

-  Don't add

    **Important**

    Enabling this requires that you have entered in a user profile and
    password in the :ref:`NovelistSelectProfile and NovelistSelectPassword <novelistselectprofile-and-novelistselectpassword-label>` preferences

Description:

-  Novelist Select from Ebsco is a subscription service that can provide
   additional content in the OPAC.

.. _novelistselectprofile-and-novelistselectpassword-label:

NovelistSelectProfile and NovelistSelectPassword
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Asks: Access Novelist Select using user profile \_\_\_ and password
\_\_\_.

    **Important**

    This information will be visible if someone views the source code on
    your OPAC.

Description:

-  Novelist Select from Ebsco is a subscription service that can provide
   additional content in the OPAC.

.. _novelistselectstaffenabled-label:

NovelistSelectStaffEnabled
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Default: Don't add

Asks: \_\_\_ Novelist Select content to the Staff client (requires that
you have entered in a user profile and password, which can be seen in
image links).

Values:

-  Don't add

-  Add

.. _novelistselectstaffprofile-label:

NovelistSelectStaffProfile
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Asks: Access Novelist Select using user profile \_\_\_ on the staff client

Description:

-  Without this value being set, Novelist features will be disabled on the staff
   client until a correct profile is obtained from Novelist and entered into
   the field.

      **Note**

      This value must be set independently of the OPAC profile for Novelist

.. _novelistselectstaffview-label:

NovelistSelectStaffView
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Default: in a tab

Asks: Display Novelist Select staff content \_\_\_.

Values:

-  above the holdings table

-  below the holdings table

-  in a tab

.. _novelistselectview-label:

NovelistSelectView
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Default: in an OPAC tab

Asks: Display Novelist Select content \_\_\_

Description:

-  Novelist Select provides a lot of content, for that reason you have
   four choices of where to display this content. The default view is in
   a tab in the holdings table.

   |image55|

   The content is the same if you choose to show it above the holdings
   table or below it. If shown in the right column of the page it's the
   same content, but displays a bit differently since space is limited.

   |image56|

Values:

-  above the holdings table

-  below the holdings table

-  in an OPAC tab

-  under the Save Record dropdown on the right

.. _open-library-label:

Open Library
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. _openlibrarycovers-label:

OpenLibraryCovers
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Default: Don't add

Asks: \_\_\_ cover images from Open Library to search results and item
detail pages on the OPAC.

Values:

-  Add

-  Don't add

Description:

-  This setting controls the display of applicable cover art from the
   free Open Library database, via the Open Library API. Please note
   that to use this feature, all other cover services should be turned
   off.

.. _openlibrarysearch-label:

OpenLibrarySearch
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Default: Don't show

Asks: \_\_\_ search results from Open Library on the OPAC.

Values:

-  Don't show

-  Show

  |image1187|

.. _overdrive-label:

Overdrive
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

OverDrive is an pay service. You must first contact OverDrive directly
for pricing and subscription information. Enabling this service will
integrate Overdrive results in to your OPAC searches. You will have to
apply for these 3 pieces of information through an application as an API
developer. Overdrive API applications are evaluated once a week so you
may not be able to use this feature immediately after signing up. To
learn more please contact your OverDrive representative.

|image57|

.. _overdrivecirculation-label:

OverDriveCirculation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Default: Don't enable

Asks: \_\_\_ users to access their OverDrive circulation history, and circulate
items. If you enable access, you must register auth return url of
http(s)://my.opac.hostname/cgi-bin/koha/external/overdrive/auth.pl with OverDrive.

Values:

-  Don't enable

-  Enable

.. _overdriveclientkey-and-overdriveclientsecret-label:

OverDriveClientKey and OverDriveClientSecret
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Asks: Include OverDrive availability information with the client key
\_\_ and client secret \_\_\_

Description:

-  OverDrive customers can get this information by visiting the
   `OverDrive Developer
   Portal <https://developer.overdrive.com/docs/getting-started>`__ and
   following the instructions found there to apply as an API developer.
   Once this data and the :ref:`OverDriveLibraryID <OverDriveLibraryID-label>`
   are populated you will see OverDrive results on your OPAC searches.

.. _overdrivelibraryid-label:

OverDriveLibraryID
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Asks: Show items from the OverDrive catalog of library # \_\_\_

Description:

-  OverDrive customers can get this information by visiting the
   `OverDrive Developer
   Portal <https://developer.overdrive.com/docs/getting-started>`__ and
   following the instructions found there to apply as an API developer.
   Once this data and the :ref:`OverDriveClientKey and
   OverDriveClientSecret <overdriveclientkey-and-overdriveclientsecret-label>` are populated you will
   see OverDrive results on your OPAC searches.

.. _recordedbooks-label:

RecordedBooks
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

RecordedBooks is a pay service. You must first contact RBmedia directly
for pricing and subscription information.

.. _recordedbooksclientsecret-label:

RecordedBooksClientSecret
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Asks: Include RecordedBooks availability information with the client secret \_\_\_

Description:

-  Contact your Recorded Books representative for the library client secret code. (Visit the RBmedia
   homepage at https://rbmediaglobal.com/ for more information.)

.. _recordedbooksdomain-label:

RecordedBooksDomain
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Asks: RecordedBooks domain \_\_\_

Description:

-  Enter the domain that your patrons access RecordedBooks.

.. _recordedbookslibraryid-label:

RecordedBooksLibraryID
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Asks: Show items from the RecordedBooks catalog of library ID \_\_\_

Description:

-  Contact your Recorded Books representative for the catalog library id.

.. _syndetics-label:

Syndetics
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Syndetics is a pay service. You must first contact Syndetics directly
for pricing and subscription information.

.. _syndeticsauthornotes-label:

SyndeticsAuthorNotes
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Default: Don't show

Asks: \_\_\_ notes about the author of a title from Syndetics on item
detail pages on the OPAC.

Values:

-  Don't show

-  Show

Description:

-  When this option is set to "Show", Syndetics provides notes and short
   author biographies for more that 300,000 authors, in both fiction and
   nonfiction. With this option enabled the library can display
   Syndetics Author Notes on the OPAC. According to the Syndetics
   Solutions website (http://www.bowker.com/syndetics/), Author Notes
   include lists of contributors for many multi-author texts and
   compilations. The :ref:`SyndeticsClientCode <SyndeticsClientCode-label>` must
   be entered and the :ref:`SyndeticsEnabled <SyndeticsEnabled-label>` option
   must be activated before this service can be used.

.. _syndeticsawards-label:

SyndeticsAwards
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Default: Don't show

Asks: \_\_\_ information from Syndetics about the awards a title has won
on item detail pages on the OPAC.

Values:

-  Don't show

-  Show

Description:

-  When this option is set to "Show", Syndetics provides its clients
   with a list of awards that any title has won. With this service
   enabled the library can display those awards for each book on its
   website. For each book or item that comes up during a user search,
   the list of awards for that title will be displayed. When a user
   clicks on a given award, information about that award is presented
   along with a list of the other titles that have won that award. If
   the user clicks on any title in the list, they will see holdings
   information about that title in their region. This option is a paid
   subscription service. The
   :ref:`SyndeticsClientCode <SyndeticsClientCode-label>` must be entered and
   the :ref:`SyndeticsEnabled <SyndeticsEnabled-label>` option must be activated
   before this service can be used.

.. _syndeticsclientcode-label:

SyndeticsClientCode
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Asks: Use the client code \_\_\_ to access Syndetics.

Description:

-  Once the library signs up for Syndetics' services, Syndetics will
   provide the library with an access code. (Visit the Syndetics
   homepage at http://www.bowker.com/syndetics/ for more information.)
   This is the code that must be entered to access Syndetics'
   subscription services. Syndetics is a paid subscription service. This
   value must be entered before
   :ref:`SyndeticsEditions <SyndeticsEditions-label>` can be enabled. If the
   code is lost, corrupted, or forgotten, a new one can be obtained from
   http://www.bowker.com/syndetics/.

    **Important**

    You will need to get your client code directly from Syndetics.

.. _syndeticscoverimages-and-syndeticscoverimagesize-label:

SyndeticsCoverImages and SyndeticsCoverImageSize
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

SyndeticsCoverImages Default: Don't show

SyndeticsCoverImageSize Default: medium

Asks: \_\_\_ cover images from Syndetics on search results and item
detail pages on the OPAC in a \_\_\_ size.

Descriptions:

-  When enabled, SyndeticsCoverImages, allows libraries to display
   Syndetics' collection of full-color cover images for books, videos,
   DVDs and CDs on their OPAC. For each book or item that comes up
   during a user search, the cover image for that title will be
   displayed. Since these cover images come in three sizes, the optimum
   size must be selected using the SyndeticsCoverImageSize preference
   after SyndeticsCoverImages are enabled. Syndetics cover images come
   in two sizes: mid-size (187 x 187 pixels), and large (400 x 400
   pixels). Syndetics is a paid subscription service. The
   :ref:`SyndeticsClientCode <SyndeticsClientCode-label>` must be entered and
   the :ref:`SyndeticsEnabled <SyndeticsEnabled-label>` option must be activated
   before this service can be used. Other cover image preferences should
   also be disabled to avoid interference.

SyndeticsCoverImages Values:

-  Don't show

-  Show

SyndeticsCoverImageSize Values:

-  medium

-  large

.. _syndeticseditions-label:

SyndeticsEditions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Default: Don't show

Asks: \_\_\_ information about other editions of a title from Syndetics
on item detail pages on the OPAC

Description:

-  When enabled this option shows information on other editions of a
   title from Syndetics on the item detail pages of the OPAC. Syndetics
   is a paid subscription service. The
   :ref:`SyndeticsClientCode <SyndeticsClientCode-label>` must be entered and
   the :ref:`SyndeticsEnabled <SyndeticsEnabled-label>` option must be activated
   before this service can be used.

Values:

-  Don't show

-  Show

    **Important**

    Requires :ref:`OPACFRBRizeEditions <OPACFRBRizeEditions-label>` set to
    'show'

.. _syndeticsenabled-label:

SyndeticsEnabled
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Default: Don't use

Asks: \_\_\_ content from Syndetics.

Values:

-  Don't use

-  Use

Description:

-  When this option is enabled any of the Syndetics options can be used.

    **Important**

    Requires that you enter your
    :ref:`SyndeticsClientCode <SyndeticsClientCode-label>` before this content
    will appear.

.. _syndeticsexcerpt-label:

SyndeticsExcerpt
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Default: Don't show

Asks: \_\_\_ excerpts from of a title from Syndetics on item detail
pages on the OPAC.

Values:

-  Don't show

-  Show

Description:

-  This preference allows Syndetics to display excerpts given to them
   from selected publishers. The excerpts are available from prominently
   reviewed new titles, both fiction and non-fiction. The excerpts
   include poems, essays, recipes, forwards and prefaces. Automatic
   links provided by the ISBNs within local MARC records are required to
   integrate Syndetics secured, high-speed Internet servers to the
   library OPACs. For more information see
   (http://www.bowker.com/syndetics/).

.. _syndeticsreviews-label:

SyndeticsReviews
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Default: Don't show

Asks: \_\_\_ reviews of a title from Syndetics on item detail pages on
the OPAC.

Values:

-  Don't show

-  Show

Description:

-  Syndetics Reviews is an accumulation of book reviews available from a
   variety of journals and serials. The reviews page displays colored
   images of reviewed books dust jackets, partnered with the names of
   the journal or serial providing the review. Clicking on an icon opens
   a window revealing the book title, author's name, book cover icon and
   the critic's opinion of the book. Automatic links provided by the
   ISBNs within local MARC records are required to integrate Syndetics
   secured, high-speed Internet servers to the library OPACs. For more
   information see (http://www.bowker.com/syndetics/).

.. _syndeticsseries-label:

SyndeticsSeries
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Default: Don't show

Asks: \_\_\_ information on other books in a title's series from
Syndetics on item detail pages on the OPAC.

Values:

-  Don't show

-  Show

Description:

-  Each fiction title within a series is linked to the complete series
   record. The record displays each title in reading order and also
   displays the publication order, if different. Alternate series titles
   are also displayed. Automatic links provided by the ISBNs within
   local MARC records are required to integrate Syndetics secured, high-
   speed Internet servers to the library OPACs. For more information see
   (http://www.bowker.com/syndetics/).

.. _syndeticssummary-label:

SyndeticsSummary
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Default: Don't show

Asks: \_\_\_ a summary of a title from Syndetics on item detail pages on
the OPAC.

Values:

-  Don't show

-  Show

Description:

-  Providing more than 5.6 million summaries and annotations derived
   from book jackets, edited publisher copy, or independently written
   annotations from Book News, Inc. Covering fiction and non-fiction,
   this summaries option provides annotations on both trade and
   scholarly titles. For more information see
   (http://www.bowker.com/syndetics/).

.. _syndeticstoc-label:

SyndeticsTOC
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Default: Don't show

Asks: \_\_\_ the table of contents of a title from Syndetics on item
detail pages on the OPAC.

Values:

-  Don't show

-  Show

Description:

-  This preference allows staff and patrons to review the Table of
   Contents from a wide variety of publications from popular self-help
   books to conference proceedings. Specific Information access is the
   main purpose for this option, allowing patrons guidance to their
   preferred section of the book. Special arrangements with selected
   book services is used to obtain the table of contents for new
   publications each year. Automatic links provided by the ISBNs within
   local MARC records are required to integrate Syndetics secured,
   high-speed Internet servers to the library OPACs. For more
   information see (http://www.bowker.com/syndetics/).

.. _tagging-label:

Tagging
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. _tagsenabled-label:

TagsEnabled
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Default: Allow

Asks: \_\_\_ patrons and staff to put tags on items.

Values:

-  Allow

-  Don't allow

Description:

-  Set to 'Allow' enable tagging. A tag is metadata, a word added to
   identify an item. Tags allow patrons to classify materials on their
   own. TagsEnabled is the main switch that permits the tagging
   features. TagsEnable must be set to 'Allow' to allow for other
   tagging features.

.. _tagsexternaldictionary-label:

TagsExternalDictionary
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Asks: Allow tags in the dictionary of the ispell executable \_\_\_ on
the server to be approved without moderation.

Description:

-  The dictionary includes a list of accepted and rejected tags. The
   accepted list includes all the tags that have been pre-allowed. The
   rejected list includes tags that are not allowed. This preference
   identifies the "accepted" dictionary used. Ispell is an open source
   dictionary which can be used as a list of accepted terms. Since the
   dictionary allows for accurately spelled obscenities, the libraries
   policy may dictate that modifications are made to the Ispell
   dictionary if this preference is use. For more information about
   Ispell http://www.gnu.org/software/ispell/ispell.html. Enter the path
   on your server to a local ispell executable, used to set
   $Lingua::Ispell::path.

.. _tagsinputondetail-label:

TagsInputOnDetail
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Default: Allow

Asks: \_\_\_ patrons to input tags on item detail pages on the OPAC.

Values:

-  Allow

   |image59|

-  Don't allow

.. _tagsinputonlist-label:

TagsInputOnList
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Asks: \_\_\_ patrons to input tags on search results on the OPAC.

Default: Don't allow

Values:

-  Allow

-  Don't allow

Description:

-  This system preference is used to control whether or not patrons can add tags
   to titles from the search results, lists and cart.

-  When set to 'Allow', a button to add tags will appear under each search
   result, under each title in a list and in the cart.

   |opacsearchresultsingle|

-  Patrons will also have the possibility of selecting several titles and
   tagging them all.

.. _tagsmoderation-label:

TagsModeration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Default: Don't require

Asks: \_\_\_ that tags submitted by patrons be reviewed by a staff
member before being shown.

Values:

-  Don't require

-  Require

Description:

-  When set to 'Require,^ all tags to be first filtered by the tag
   moderator. Only approved tags will be visible to patrons. When set to
   'Don't require' tags will bypass the tag moderator and patrons' tags
   to be immediately visible. When this preference is enabled the
   moderator, a staff member, would approve the tag in the Staff Client.
   The moderator will have the option to approve or reject each pending
   tag suggestion.

When moderation is required all tags go through the tag moderation tool
before becoming visible.

-  *Get there:* More > Tools > :ref:`Tags <tag-moderation-label>`

.. _tagsshowondetail-label:

TagsShowOnDetail
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Default: 10

Asks: Show \_\_\_ tags on item detail pages on the OPAC.

    **Note**

    Set the value to 0 (zero) to turn this feature off.

.. _tagsshowonlist-label:

TagsShowOnList
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Default: 6

Asks: Show \_\_\_ tags on search results on the OPAC.

    **Note**

    Set the value to 0 (zero) to turn this feature off.


